Route Segmentation Algorithm Explanation (updated 26 Sept, 2016)

For each day of the information, we collect information on Points of Interest (POIs) based on the user's travel patterns and identify 10-minute-long routes, and then select the most intersting route for each day to show to the user. 

To identify POIs and unique points, we run two separate iterations of the DBScan (Density-Based clustering) algorithm, implemented in Javascript at https://github.com/uhho/density-clustering. DBScan takes in a neighborhood radius and a neighborhood density and outputs the number of clusters in the dataset: i.e. a high density of points within a certain radius. Anything not placed in a cluster is classified as "noise." For POI identification, we say we want a radius of 0.0005 (degrees) and 10 neighbors within the cluster, with all of the GPS data as our labels. After running, each datapoint is either associated with a certain POI or is "noise," which generally means it's en route from one POI to another. For identifying unique labels, we run a DBScan with radius 0.0005 and require 2 neighbors within the cluster. The intention of this is that routes the user only takes once will be unique, but routes they take many times will not. Admittedly, DBScan may not be the most justifiable clustering method for this, but it seems to perform fairly well. 

Once we've identified POIs, we can identify pieces of the data as routes. We first identify a route from when the user leaves one POI to when they arrive at another and spend at least 30 minutes at that POI, meaning that they stopped and the route has ended. Once we identify this route, we split it up into parts, where each part is a minimum of 10 minutes long (and a maximum of 20 minutes). 

After we have obtained all of the routes, we score each one and identify the one with the highest score. The score is calculated as the ratio of points within POIs plus the ratio of unique points to all points along the route. The justification here is that one kind of "interesting" route would be one where you pass by a lot of interesting points along your way from one place to another; another kind of interesting route would be one you've never taken before. These two combined ratios are weighted equally and each route is scored accordingly.
